---
title: Sapper app structure
---

If you take a look inside the [sapper-template](https://github.com/sveltejs/sapper-template) repo, you'll see some files that Sapper expects to find:

```bash
├ package.json
├ src
│ ├ routes
│ │ ├ # your routes here
│ │ ├ _error.svelte
│ │ └ index.svelte
│ ├ client.js
│ ├ server.js
│ ├ service-worker.js
│ └ template.html
├ static
│ ├ # your files here
└ rollup.config.js / webpack.config.js
```

When you first run Sapper, it will create an additional `__sapper__` directory containing generated files.

You'll notice a few extra files — we don't need to worry about those right now.

> You *can* create these files from scratch, but it's much better to use the template. See [getting started](docs#Getting_started) for instructions on how to easily clone it


### package.json

Your package.json contains your app's dependencies and defines a number of scripts:

* `npm run dev` — start the app in development mode, and watch source files for changes
* `npm run build` — build the app in production mode
* `npm run export` — bake out a static version, if applicable (see [exporting](docs#Exporting))
* `npm start` — start the app in production mode after you've built it


### src

This contains the three *entry points* for your app — `src/client.js`, `src/server.js` and (optionally) `src/service-worker.js` — along with a `src/template.html` file.

#### src/client.js

This *must* import, and call, the `start` function from the generated `@sapper/app` module:

```js
import * as sapper from '@sapper/app';

sapper.start({
	target: document.querySelector('#sapper')
});
```

In many cases, that's the entirety of your entry module, though you can do as much or as little here as you wish. See the [client API](docs#Client_API) section for more information on functions you can import.


#### src/server.js

This is a normal Express (or [Polka](https://github.com/lukeed/polka), etc) app, with three requirements:

* it should serve the contents of the `static` folder, using for example [sirv](https://github.com/lukeed/sirv)
* it should call `app.use(sapper.middleware())` at the end, where `sapper` is imported from `@sapper/server`
* it must listen on `process.env.PORT`

Beyond that, you can write the server however you like.


#### src/service-worker.js

Service workers act as proxy servers that give you fine-grained control over how to respond to network requests. For example, when the browser requests `/goats.jpg`, the service worker can respond with a file it previously cached, or it can pass the request on to the server, or it could even respond with something completely different, such as a picture of llamas.

Among other things, this makes it possible to build applications that work offline.

Because every app needs a slightly different service worker (sometimes it's appropriate to always serve from the cache, sometimes that should only be a last resort in case of no connectivity), Sapper doesn't attempt to control the service worker. Instead, you write the logic in `service-worker.js`. You can import any of the following from `@sapper/service-worker`:

* `files` — an array of files found in the `static` directory
* `shell` — the client-side JavaScript generated by the bundler (Rollup or webpack)
* `routes` — an array of `{ pattern: RegExp }` objects you can use to determine whether a Sapper-controlled page is being requested
* `timestamp` — the time the service worker was generated (useful for generating unique cache names)


#### src/template.html

This file is a template for responses from the server. Sapper will inject content that replaces the following tags:

* `%sapper.base%` — a `<base>` element (see [base URLs](docs#Base_URLs))
* `%sapper.styles%` — critical CSS for the page being requested
* `%sapper.head%` — HTML representing page-specific `<head>` contents, like `<title>`
* `%sapper.html%` — HTML representing the body of the page being rendered
* `%sapper.scripts%` — script tags for the client-side app
* `%sapper.cspnonce%` — CSP nonce taken from `res.locals.nonce` (see [Content Security Policy (CSP)](docs#Content_Security_Policy_CSP))


### src/routes

This is the meat of your app — the pages and server routes. See the section on [routing](docs#Routing) for the juicy details.


### static

This is a place to put any files that your app uses — fonts, images and so on. For example `static/favicon.png` will be served as `/favicon.png`.

Sapper doesn't serve these files — you'd typically use [sirv](https://github.com/lukeed/sirv) or [serve-static](https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static) for that — but it will read the contents of the `static` folder so that you can easily generate a cache manifest for offline support (see [service-worker.js](docs#src_service-worker_js)).

> Note that the default behaviour of the service worker is to cache all assets from the static directory, so if you have more than 50mb of files here, you will start to exceed the cache limit for service-workers in some browsers, which can cause the service worker to stop loading. In this instance, it is advisable to customise what files are cached by editing the service-worker yourself.

### rollup.config.js / webpack.config.js

Sapper can use [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) or [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) to bundle your app. You probably won't need to change the config, but if you want to (for example to add new loaders or plugins), you can.
